along about the third day.
And the whole thing lasted how long?
Ten days.
Ten days, that's what I thought.
And then it was just bunches of them leaving each day.
Did you ever think about leaving?
Never.
No sir.
So did you, did, so you and two or three close friends never talked about what if?
No.
Okay.
I was a senior.
There were only,
12 of us out there left, and I mean, gee whiz, quitting wasn't any option.
Did Coach Bryant ever talk to you seniors?
No.
In any kind of relaxed manner?
He would talk to Marvin Tate,
because Marvin was kind of a team leader.
He would talk to Benny Sinclair who became the captain of the team that year.
Benny was a very religious, good kid, still is to this very day.
He lives over here at the Woodlands in that general area.
He's the one that asked Coach Bryant to cut back on the cursing.
There's a long story about that.
What was the response?
Oh, he said he'd get a can and every time he cursed, he'd put some money in it.
Then when it reached a million dollars, we'd go buy something.
No, he never quit.
And let's see, among the people that I became well-acquainted with at church here was Drake, Bobby Drake, Keith.
And he would have been a sophomore, I guess.
He was here a year before he and Gene played together.
Now, those who dropped out, not only did they drop out of football, they left A&M, didn't they?
Generally.
And in general, they were from all classes, freshman through?
Yes.
Did you start out with 12 seniors?
Do you remember how many, or were there 12 left when Junction was over?
There were 12 left in the Junction crew.
Do you remember how many y'all started out, how many seniors y'all started out with?
I may be wrong on this point.
I think Fred Broussard was the only senior.
Let's see.
Well, Joe Boring quit.
He was a senior.
But Joe didn't drop out of school.
He went ahead and played baseball.
That's all of the seniors.
Well, let's see, maybe one of the Robbins boys would have been a senior that year.
I'm not sure of that.
There were two, actually three of the Robbins brothers.
As far as you know, did any coach ever try to persuade some potential drop out or dropper outer to stay?
Hey, don't leave, we need you.
Did the coaches ever, any of the assistant coaches ever attempt that?
Not that I'm aware of.
I've never heard of any such.
If Coach Bryant heard of it, he'd probably fire him.
Now were, as you look back on it, were there, was there any assistant coach in his style that was more likely not to use the strong language
that was more sensitive, that in hindsight was a, was, was more, you know, was a better person?
Oh, yes.
Who, who would that have been?
All of them.
Oh, all of them.
Oh, okay, okay.
Starting with Jim Owens.
Okay.
All of them.
All of them were better people than Coach Bryant
And the way they treated young people, the way they spoke, the way they behaved, they were better role models than he was.
Now, in the summer of 59, I had a temporary job at Schreiner Institute.
And also there with me was a young man named S.M.
Meeks, whose dad was here.
Was he the equipment manager when you were here?
No.
Monk Meeks wasn't here yet?
Okay.
No.
All right then.
Billy Pickard was our principal manager and all around equipment man.
Billy handled everything.
Yeah.
Beginning as a student and then up until this very day.
Billy's a good man.
Do you remember by chance what you weighed at the start of that?
Oh yes.
Training session and what you weighed when you came back?
I weighed 195 when I started and that was after going through six months of hard training at Fort Knox.
And when I came back I weighed less than 185, rehydrated.
I lost about 10 pounds out there.
I wasn't fat to begin with.
I was in good shape.
Did Coach Bryant say, as you all were leaving Junction, did he say anything to those of you that were survivors?
No, let me say this, Dr. Monroe.
I want to tell you just briefly the relationship or lack thereof that I had with Coach Bryant.
I thought, like I told you after spring training, that I had performed well and I was ready to have a good senior year.
previous year I had hurt my right knee pretty badly five days before the first game and I didn't even let her that year because of that.
And so I was rehabbed and was in good shape my senior year and I was looking forward to a good year, not because of anything special, just because I loved playing football.
I was looking forward to having a good year and enjoying playing football.
Coach Bryant took all the joy out of football, but beyond that or above that, when I showed up in front of Walton Hall that day, he was there and he immediately, he didn't say, hello, how are you?
Do you have a good summer or anything?
He said, Hall, what's this I hear about you getting married?
I smiled and I said, yes, sir, that's right.
There wasn't any smile on his face.
He had that snarl on his face and he says, don't you know you can't play football on this team and be married?
I didn't know what to say.
From that moment on, Dr. Monroe, I don't believe that
For the rest of the season, Coach Bryant ever looked me in the eye and ever said anything personally to me.
I was just there.
I was a body that he ignored.
In hindsight, did you and your friends think that the purpose of the Junction program was to chase a bunch of people off?
Absolutely.
That's what I assumed.
He didn't like what he saw in spring training and he was going to do something about it.
He was going to sort the wheat from the chaff if there was any wheat and that's what he went out there for.
Now in that bunch of, in that first freshman class, did you upperclassmen think there were some talented people he had recruited?
Oh yes.
You all recognize that?
Oh yeah.
We would, you know, we didn't practice together, didn't play together.
They had their own separate freshman schedule.
They played five games.
But they went out to Junction?
No, no.
Oh, I thought that.
None of them went.
Oh, I didn't know that.
Okay.
A while ago you said freshman.
I missed that.
No, there was only sophomores, juniors, and seniors out there.
Oh, okay, okay.
They stayed behind.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But anyway, they would practice out there on the west side of Kyle Field.
right next to us there were two practice fields there and some days we would finish before they did and I would love to stop and stand there and watch for a while there were some real athletes out there you know John David Crowe but the most interesting thing to watch was their wind sprints when they got through and
They had this big old six-foot-two, 210-pound kid named Ken Hall.
He looked like he had wings, and he wasn't even putting out any effort.
He'd be 10 yards ahead of everybody on a 50-yard dance.
From Sugar Land, Texas.
The Sugar Land, what do they call him?
The Sugar Land Express.
He's out at Fredericksburg right now.
It was amazing to watch him.
I went to watch their first freshman football game, and on the first play of the game,
He went 60 yards for a touchdown right out there in the north end of the cow field.
And I've often thought, imagine what the backfield would have been like when they were seniors if you had a John David Crowe at fullback and a Hall at halfback.
Yeah, but anyway, never.
Now, about how many, so in summary of Junction, about how many went out 100 plus and about how many came back?
30 some odd?
Well, they claim that there's 35.
So, so about a third.
That's how many names are in the book.
All right, when that fall, what, what did this, these changes in football, did they have any effect on you academically?
Did you, you, the pressure of Coach Bryant and all,
The only pressure was from the long time requirement with football while I was taking 20 hours coursework.
That meant a lot of midnight oil burning for me to keep my grades up.
In fact, that got me in trouble once.
I think, I don't remember if they told about it in the book or not.
Actually I have never finished reading The Junction Boys.
It makes me feel pretty bad when I try to read it.
But one night I told you that after practice you couldn't eat anything.
You just drink and try to rehydrate yourself for two or three hours.
I had to study that night and we lived, he moved us from Hart Hall to Walton Hall.
We lived right up there at Northgate.
and I had to study late so about 10, 30 or 11 I went over to Godfrey's restaurant there at Northgate, Jean Godfrey was a friend of all of us, she and her husband, and I had a cup of coffee and a piece of coconut pie.
Went back to my room, sit down at my desk and was studying, somebody come knocking on the door in about 15 minutes.
I went to the door and it is the man with the biggest, darkest scowl on his face you've ever seen.
Hall, did I see you over at Godfrey's about 15 minutes ago?
I said, yes, sir.
What were you doing over there?
I said I was having a piece of pie and a cup of coffee.
He said, well, we're fixing to have a team meeting
and you are not invited.
Gone.
Why?
Why, Coach?
What'd I do?
Anyway, I don't hold any animosity toward Coach Bryant.
I give him his dues.
He proved himself
to be capable of having the best football winning record of anybody in major college football.
He proved himself to be a good enough mentor that many young people felt very close to him.
And like Dennis Goering said, he felt like a second father to me.
He proved himself to be an extremely capable
Speaker, businessman, and probably a lousy father and husband, probably.
I give him all his dues.
He did it better than anybody else has ever done it, but I will never agree that the methods that he used in 1954 were right, was the right way to treat young men.
Never will I agree with that.
And I'll go a little further and say that when they had the 25th reunion at Junction, you may know this and you may not care one way or the other, Dennis Gehring called me and told me about it and said, Charlie, why don't you come out and go with us?
I said, Dennis, I'm not going.
And he pleaded with me, you know, and that's when he said, well, Charlie, my goodness, don't you have any respect for Coach Bryant?
He's like a second father to me.
I said, Dennis...
I had a wonderful Christian father.
I would never compare him with Coach Bryant, and I really sincerely feel that way.
So I'm giving him his dues on both sides of the fence.
During that senior year, you said you were married.
Were you living off campus then?
Oh, no.
I lived in the dorm.
In the dorm.
My wife stayed in Dallas and worked.
All right.
When the season is over for you, you're through with athletics?
at A&M.
Yes sir.
Through with academics.
Oh you graduated that fall semester?
I graduated that fall semester.
All right and you're getting ready to go on active duty.
Active duty.
Right.
During all those A&M years you've mentioned religion a few times.
Did you go to any religious meetings here?
Did you attend church?
Rarely.
Okay.
I was raised in the Methodist Church.
When I was going to A&M I felt like that my upbringing had stood me well and kept me out of a lot of trouble but no I did not, I don't want to say I didn't have the opportunity
I did not do it on a regular basis.
Getting there and back even was a problem.
They didn't have a chapel on campus at that time, but I probably would not have gone.
But then again, outside of that I've always gone to church except when I was going to A&M.
At Northgate, what was there at Northgate in those days, places where you and your friends could go if you wanted to?
Well there were, the only thing at Northgate were a few restaurants.
Such as?
Well, Godfrey's.
Where was it?
Oh, between Chicken Oil Company and the corner drug store.
The drug store, which is now Lupo's, that was a drug store.
You could go there.
And periodically the restaurants change names.
The Campus Theater is where Shadow Canyon is now.
Yeah, they all went to the campus.
And they had the drive-in theater down at Triangle, down on the corner, the circle, circle drive-in theater.
And did y'all, on the campus, did y'all ever go to Southgate to Maidleys?
Rarely.
All right, now that, I haven't heard many people mention that.
That wasn't the focus of attention.
That's the impression I get.
And now, for social life,
What was it like to describe bringing a date to the campus for a big campus dance or party or something?
Well, it was an ordeal that required an awful lot of planning because very few of us had vehicles, but we had to make some kind of arrangements for transportation to and from.
So we generally try to pair up with friends that might be able to,
borrow your car for a weekend.
I never was able to borrow the vehicle.
My parents lived in Dallas a four-hour trip away and they had one vehicle and that was it so we just have to make arrangements with our friends that were able to get some kind of transportation and make arrangements for them to stay in the motel and get to and from in a very short space of span of time.
It was usually a Saturday
night affair and that was about it.
Do you remember when you bought your senior boots?
I never bought senior boots.
I did not own senior boots.
So you didn't go to the boot dance?
I went to the boot dance but I didn't wear boots because I didn't have any.
Where was it?
Sebesa?
Sebesa, yes.
Was there a big off-campus band?
See, 10 years earlier they had the big name bands, but I don't think they were.
Good question, but I don't remember.
I don't think they were coming in the 50s.
How were the women, how were the dates treated when they were here?
Like Queens.
I mean, that's the way with, that's the way it was in the 50s.
The women were on pedestals and we looked up to them and,
they were better than we were and we treated them like queens.
And let's see did they have dance cards then where you signed who was dancing with whom or did you just dance with your date and occasionally somebody cut in?
We did not have cards we almost exclusively danced with our dates maybe once
or twice during the evening switch with friends who had dates.
Now, for those of you that were on the football team, did y'all feel that you were fully a part of the student body, accepted by your fellow students?
Yes, but I always felt, because I had lived in the Corps for a while, I felt that I didn't get as much of that as I would have enjoyed.
I love the Corps to this very day.
To me it is the best training that a young man can get and the camaraderie with it is just unbelievable.
Lifelong friendships are developed there in a short period of time.
Describe the basic attitudes of the student body then.
Then?
The basic attitude of the student body then was.
Attitude, philosophy, whatever word you might want to use.
Responsible dedication to the task at hand.
We lived academics.
We didn't have distractions to bother us.
I mean that's what we were here for to get a good education and to
develop friendships.
I think that the attitude was the job is in front of us, let's do it together and let's enjoy it.
And did it matter who your parents were or what their ancestry was?
Zero difference, made no difference whatsoever, none.
Can you recall some?
Sure.
Some students whose?
We had a friend in Hart Hall.
from Illinois.
His father was a big manufacturer.
He came to A&M in a brand-new Buick automobile, leather upholstery, the whole nine yards.
Great guy.
Love him to this day.
When he had his car, he didn't keep his car here the whole time because I think he felt guilty.
But he's a great guy.
Don Niederer is his name.
And he's been a big contributor to A&M.
And you remember some Hispanics and some Catholics and some Jews?
Was there a diversity in the student body?
I don't remember many Jews.
And there weren't many Hispanics.
But were they accepted as a... No different.
Why was that so?
Why were they accepted?
Why was everybody accepted?
Because they were Aggies and that's the way Aggies treat each other.
What, uh, what are the events that contribute most to that feeling?
The events that contribute most to that feeling?
The events.
Events?
Yeah, the plural.
Um, there's no question in my mind but that muster is number one, silver taps is number two,
Living in the Corps has to be a big plus factor for that.
The traditions are a strong binding force between all Aggies.
The alumni
are a strong force in it.
The faculty's a strong force in it.
My goodness, it's one big family.
Do you remember going to a Silver Taps that was particularly memorable to you?
Well, not one, Haskell.
I've lost lots of friends and I cried all of them.
Do you remember your first muster?
Do you remember when?
Yes, but I don't remember who it was far.
No, but I remember.
Did you go to muster here on campus?
Went to muster here on, oh did you say Silver Taps?
Silver Taps was first and then muster.
The first muster.
You don't remember whether you went as a freshman or not?
I don't remember if I did but I have always gone to musters even when I was not here in Palestine I went to the muster up there.
I have spoken at musters.
I'm doing my 25th muster speech this year in Charleston, South Carolina.
Congratulations.
It is, it's the number one, it's the,
top event of the year for me.
I wouldn't miss it.
Uh, since, since you?
Except my father died on mustard day in 96 and I missed it.
Oh my.
Uh.
Not 96, 98.
Did, when you were playing football, uh, did y'all go to yell practice?
Did the, did the team go to yell practice?
Uh, sometimes, yes.
Now I've heard also.
At the Grove.
I've heard that sometimes there were spontaneous yell practices held at Coach Bryant's
request during the season?
Not during 54.
Oh okay, okay.
Maybe so.
Remember Coach Bryant was a different man after 1954.
He showed a little the human side after 1954.
Your senior ring, do you remember when you went over to get it?
Have any idea what it cost?
My recollection is thirty dollars.
And how did you feel when you put it on?
Great.
And when I lost it, I'd like to have a heart attack.
Where did you lose it?
Elizabethtown, Kentucky.
That summer when I went up to summer camp at Fort Knox on the way back, we stopped at Elizabethtown to go to the bathroom
I took my ring off to wash my hands get the soap off my finger and walked out of there without it.
Got in the car and we drove down the road a few miles and all of a sudden I noticed it was missing and by the way I don't wear it anymore for a reason.
I hollered I said my ring my ring it's in that John back at that filling station.
We whipped around and drove back down there and I ran in there and it was gone.
I went in to the owner and I said I left my ring in there do you have any idea you know has there been anybody in there and he said yeah.
He said there were some men that walked from over yonder walked over here went into the restroom and were in there a little bit and left and went back they must work over yonder somewhere and
He said forget about finding it if they found it because you ain't going to ever find it again.
Went on home and when I was in vet school I came in 1960 sometime during 1961 I got a note from— Wirus, Buck Wirus?
I forget who it was from now.
It says, so and so has found your Aggie ring and her address is such and such.
Anyway, I wrote her a letter, the lady, and thanked her profusely and put a five dollar bill in there and in a week or ten days
I got the ring and the five dollars back she sent back.
She sent a nice letter and said that her husband had gone into that restroom and saw it laying there and picked it up and she apologized.
It was nearly five years later and said that we've had a lot of illness and whatever in the family and the husband was dead and she apologized but I got the ring back.
Oh, that's marvelous.
I was asked for good ring stories.
That's a wonderful ring story.
Well, Ray Bowen told me that while he was doing his master's degree at Caltech in Europe with two German fellow graduate students, they're riding the train to Venice.
They're in the Alps, and here's this lady, well-dressed, neat, pleasant, reading the paper.
And she's reading an English paper.
And she looks over at him and said, oh, did you go to A&M?
Well, yes, ma'am.
How did you know?
Well, I saw your ring.
And, what's your name?
And he said, Ray Bowen.
And she said, well, I'm from San Antonio.
You might have heard of my husband.
His name is H.B.
Zachary.
Oh, might have.
And he said he told her, yes, ma'am, I think I have heard of him.
All right, so you graduated then at mid in January.
January 51.
And were we having commencements then?
In January?
Mm-hmm.
Okay.
And they had a military ceremony.
I forget what they called that.
The commissioning?
Commissioning ceremony.
But there was not a final review?
No.
Okay.
Describe commencement for you.
Who came and what was it like and how did you feel?
Oh, my parents came, my brothers came, all the family came.
I was the first one in my family.
And I felt proud.
My older brother says, you shouldn't use that word, proud, Gary.
I said, well, I won't use it if you'll just let me use it to say that I'm proud to be an American, proud to be a Texan, and proud to be an Aggie.
I won't use it anywhere else.
And how well prepared did you think A&M had made you for the real world?
A&M prepared me beautifully for a career in agriculture.